.TH ANSWER 1L "Elm Version 2.3" "USENET Community Trust"
.SH NAME
answer - phone message transcription system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B answer
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Answer\^
is a part of the
.B Elm
mail system and is designed for secretaries and the like
to allow them to answer phones and|or listen to phone message
machines and quickly and easily transcribe the messages into
electronic mail.
.P
The program uses its own alias set (usually a subset of the
system aliases, with more fields per user (ie unique first
names, unique last names, first-initial lastname, and so on)).
Note this means that you must create and then install, using
.I newalias,
a separate alias table for the account this program is to
be run from.
.P
Interface-wise, the program is a breeze to use - type 'answer'
to start it up and then merely type a user name at the
.nf

	Message to:

.fi
prompt, and then enter the message, ending with a blank line.
Names can be entered as 'Firstname Lastname' and the system
will try to find a mail alias based on the first letter of the
first name plus the last name.  For example, 'Dave Taylor'
will cause the program to search for an alias 'd_taylor' in
the file (note the transliteration into lower case).   The
program will loop until killed or quit.
.P
.I Answer
can be easily exited by typing any of 'quit', 'exit' 'done',
or 'bye' at the 'Message to:' prompt.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories
.SH SEE ALSO
.I "The Elm Alias System Users Guide",
by Dave Taylor
.sp
.br
newalias(1L), checkalias(1L), mail(1), mailx(1), from(1L), printmail(1L)
.SH FILES
$HOME/.elm/aliases.text       individual alias source
.br
$HOME/.elm/aliases.hash       individual alias hash table
.br
$HOME/.elm/aliases.data       individual alias data table
.br
/tmp/snd.$$                   edit buffer for outgoing mail
.SH BUG REPORTS TO
Syd Weinstein	elm@DSI.COM	(dsinc!elm)
.SH COPYRIGHTS
.ps 18
\fB\(co\fR\s12 Copyright 1986, 1987 by Dave Taylor
.br
.ps 18
\fB\(co\fR\s12 Copyright 1988, 1989, 1990 by The USENET Community Trust
