.TH FILTER 1L "Elm Version 2.3" "USENET Community Trust"
.SH NAME
filter - filter incoming messages before adding to mailbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B filter
[-v] [-o output]
.br
.B filter
[-n]
.br
.B filter
[-r] [-o output]
.br
.B filter
[-c] [-s] [-o output]
.br
.B filter
[-c] [-S] [-o output]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Filter
is a sophisticated program that allows incoming mail to be
filtered against a wide set of criteria.  The format for the
rules, located in $HOME/.elm/filter-rules, is;
.nf

        \fIrule\fR  ::=  \fBif  (\fIexpression\fP)  then  \fIaction\fR

.fi
where \fIexpression\fR is:
.nf

        \fIexpression\fR  ::=  {  \fBnot\fR  }  \fIcondition\fR  \fIexpr2\fR

        \fIexpr2\fR  ::=  \fINULL\fR  |  \fBand\fI  condition  expr2

        \fIcondition\fR  ::=  \fIfield  relationship  value\fR
                   ::=  \fBlines\fI  relop  numvalue\fR
or                 ::=  \fBalways\fR

.fi
These further break down as:
.nf

        \fIfield\fR  ::=  \fBfrom\fR  |  \fBsubject\fR  |  \fBto\fR  |  \fBlines\fR

        \fIrelationship\fR  ::=  \fB=\fR  |  \fB!=\fR

        \fIrelop\fR  ::=  \fB=\fR  |  \fB!=\fR  |  \fB<\fR  |  \fB>\fR  |  \fB<=\fR  |  \fB>=\fR

        \fIvalue\fR  ::=  \fIany  quoted  string\fR

        \fInumvalue\fR  ::=  \fIany  integer  value\fR

.fi
\fIAction\fR can be any of:
.nf

        \fBdelete\fR
        \fBsave  \fIfoldername\fR
        \fBsavecopy \fIfoldername\fR
        \fBexecute  \fIcommand\fR
        \fBforward  \fIaddress\fR
        \fBleave\fR

.fi
For further information about the rules language, please see
\fIThe Elm Filter Guide\fR.
.sp
The flags the \fIfilter\fR program understands are;
.TP 1.0i
.B "-c"
Clear logs.  If this flag is used, the log files will be removed after
being summarized by either "-s" or "-S" (see below).
.TP
.B "-n"
Not really.  Output what would happen if given message from standard
input, but don't actually do anything with it.
.TP
\fB-o \fIfile\fR
Redirect all log messages to the specified file or device.  (This is
added to more gracefully deal with changes in the file system (since
sendmail is quite picky about modes of files being redirected into.))
.TP
.B "-r"
Rules.  List the rules currently being used.
.TP
.B "-s"
Summarize.  List a summary of the message filtered log.
.TP
.B "-S"
This is the same as `-s' but includes message-by-message
information additionally.
.TP
.B "-v"
Verbose.  Give output on standard out for each message filtered.  Useful
to have redirected to ``/dev/console'' and such.  (see \fB-o\fR too).
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories.
.SH FILES
$HOME/.elm/filter-rules     The ruleset for the users filter
.br
$HOME/.elm/filterlog        A log of what has been done
.br
$HOME/.elm/filtersum        A summary of what has been done
.br
/etc/passwd             Used to get users home directory
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fIThe Elm Filter Guide\fR, by Dave Taylor.
.br
readmsg(1L), elm(1L), mail(1), mailx(1), sendmail(1,8)
.SH COMMENTS
Not real smart about pattern matching.
.SH BUG REPORTS TO
Syd Weinstein	elm@DSI.COM	(dsinc!elm)
.SH COPYRIGHTS
.ps 18
\fB\(co\fR\s12 Copyright 1986, 1987 by Dave Taylor
.br
.ps 18
\fB\(co\fR\s12 Copyright 1988, 1989, 1990 by The USENET Community Trust
