.TH NEWALIAS 1L "Elm Version 2.3" "USENET Community Trust"
.SH NAME
newalias - install new elm aliases for user and/or system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B newalias
[-g]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Newalias
creates new hash and data files from a text file.
If the program is invoked with the
.I -g
(global) flag, the program updates the system alias files.
Otherwise, the program looks for a file called \fI$HOME/.elm/aliases.text\fR
and, upon finding it, creates files \fI$HOME/.elm/aliases.hash\fR and
\fI$HOME/.elm/aliases.data\fR for the
.I elm
program.
.PP
The format that the program expects is;
.sp
.nf
	alias, alias, .. = comment = address
or
	alias, alias, .. = comment = alias, alias, ...

The first form is for an individual user such as;

	dave, taylor = Dave Taylor = veeger!hpcnou!dat

and the second is for defining a group alias such as;

	gurus = Unix Gurus = alan, john, dave, mike, richard,
		             larry, t_richardson

.fi
.sp
Note that lines can be continued at will, blank lines are accepted
without error, and that any line starting with '#' is considered a
comment and is not processed.
.sp
Aliases are case insensitive so dave and Dave are both the same alias.
.PP
Finally, aliases can contain other aliases, and/or groups;
.sp
.nf
	unix = Unix people = gurus, taylor, jonboy
.fi
' onto the next page, if you please
.sp 3
.SH FILES
$HOME/.elm/aliases.text         alias source for user
.br
$HOME/.elm/aliases.hash         alias hash table for user
.br
$HOME/.elm/aliases.data         alias data file for user
.br
/usr/local/lib/aliases.text     alias source for system
.br
/usr/local/lib/aliases.hash     alias hash table for system
.br
/usr/local/lib/aliases.data     alias data file for system
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Taylor, Hewlett-Packard Laboratories.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
elm(1L), checkalias(1L), mail(1), mailx(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Newalias has a couple of descriptive error messages which
don't need to be detailed here.  It is, however, worth
noting that the
.I checkalias
program can be used to ensure that the aliases are in the
proper order and are available for the
.I elm
system.
.SH BUG REPORTS TO
Syd Weinstein	elm@DSI.COM	(dsinc!elm)
.SH COPYRIGHTS
.ps 18
\fB\(co\fR\s12 Copyright 1986, 1987 by Dave Taylor
.br
.ps 18
\fB\(co\fR\s12 Copyright 1988, 1989, 1990 by The USENET Community Trust
